oh monday morning the alarm is ringing
cheerfully
and you vaguely remember you've already
hit the snooze button
maybe not even once you force your eyes
open into narrow slits
and look through the haze at the clock 5
5 30. you leap out of bed sleep driven
from your brain with an electric
jolt work starts at nine and you'll
definitely be late already but you may
yet make it before lunch if you hurry
the kids are still asleep of course all
six of them
rushing through the house but trying to
be as quiet as possible
you put on the first clothes you take
out of the wardrobe and walk out of the
apartment
on the elevator landing there's already
a crowd of sleepy people
even eight cabins aren't nearly enough
to accommodate everyone in the morning
you take your place at the end of the
line and wait
two elevators arrive half full already
taking in about a quarter of the people
on the landing
it takes another 10 minutes or so for
you to finally cram into a cabin
and start moving down from the 42nd
floor
you feel bad for those living below they
have to wait even longer
it's 6 a.m when you leave the apartment
building and join the rushing crowd
outside
as usual for this time of day there's a
huge
traffic jam on the road nearby
the crowd of pedestrians is too big so
you have to walk slowly
in about an hour you get to the subway
and stand in line to get inside
it'll take another 40 minutes or so
[Music]
still faster than walking all the way to
the office or driving
underground you have to wait for your
turn to hop inside the train
they come every five minutes but there
are so many people that even cramming
doesn't help
you only manage to get on after another
20 minutes
the doors catching the hem of your
jacket
you stand flat against the doors pushed
into them by the press of the people
at the next stop you have to get off the
train to let others out
but when you try to get back you're
pushed by the crowd waiting to hop
on and miss your place come on
the doors close and you wait another
five minutes
press from all sides by anxious
commuters
when the train arrives you work your
elbows urgently to get inside
got it you prepare for a long ride ahead
there's a similar ordeal awaiting at the
next four stops
when you finally get to your station
you're already exhausted
it's 9 20 you're late as expected and
there's still
some way to go a crowd of late runners
like you is even larger in the city
center
so you take a deep breath and dive in
people are going different ways so you
have to push through
which makes the going painfully slow if
the streets were not so busy it would
take you no more than 15 minutes to get
to the place
but in this mess you spend an entire
hour
brawling your way at last at 10 30
you're at the entrance of your building
demos inc
despite it being one of the biggest
office buildings in the city
there's a line to use the six elevators
as well
you roll your eyes and set to wait
another half hour
just to get to your floor already wow
you're in the cabin what a relief you
press the button with number 33 on it
and wait again
[Music]
it's 1103 am you've been awake for
almost six hours and yet
you've only just arrived at your
workplace your colleagues are zooming
around the floor like ants
and you carefully make your way to your
cubicle
at least it's near a window and you have
a great view over the town
you look outside and see the familiar
picture
rose upon neat rows of skyscrapers most
of them apartment buildings combined
with offices
it's been over 50 years since the
anomaly happened
[Music]
no one knows where it started exactly
but people
began having quadruplets and even
quintuplets
much more often than usual and strangely
it seemed to only affect this city and
its suburbs
in the first decade some decided it was
something in the air
or water of the town and moved to other
places
but it turned out everyone who was born
here was affected already
even those who moved to other countries
later reported to have up to
jaw-dropping 10 children all at once
and not everyone wanted or even was able
to leave town
so something had to be done that's how
demos incorporated appeared
its mission was to both help the city
adapt to the new circumstances
and investigate the cause of such a
birth anomaly
and the measures taken were drastic but
efficient
first of all the corporation invested
into real estate development
bigger families needed more space to
live comfortably
so new apartment blocks were built with
more rooms and more spacious interiors
overall
people were offered to sell their old
apartments and houses
in favor of newer places to live and
most of them gladly agreed
there was a downside too though those
who didn't want to move
soon found themselves surrounded by huge
construction sites
eventually they couldn't stand the noise
and dust and agreed to sell their
dwellings
the whole city started transforming old
buildings got demolished to make way for
new
taller and bigger ones roads were
broadened for transport to move more
freely
new businesses were open to give jobs
and services to thousands of new
citizens but that wasn't enough
population growth was more rapid than
city development
thousands left but millions stayed
the initiative to restrict birth was met
with a massive civil protest
and discarded as a result
even with hundreds of skyscrapers the
city is terribly overpopulated
its area has grown massively since the
anomaly began
and now it's the largest city in the
world not only by population
but by area too working conditions have
deteriorated as well
more and more people look for jobs that
can be carried out from home
because of incredible traffic jams
others have found work in their own
or neighboring apartment buildings
[Music]
yet others still like you are not so
lucky
they have to wake up early in the
morning just to get to work on time
it's not uncommon to have an alarm set
for 4 am
at this time it's relatively crowdless
in the streets
naturally though nursing and tutoring
have been booming all this time
since every parent now has at least four
kids to raise
they accept any help they can get
single people earn good money
babysitting for their neighbors
and tutoring their kids of school age
schools by the way have been built at an
astonishing pace
yet still there aren't nearly enough of
them to accommodate
all the children parents register years
ahead of time for their offspring to get
elementary education
entertainment has been hit hard as well
numerous new restaurants cinemas
theme parks have been open within and
beyond the city limits
but ordering a table or buying a ticket
is a game of incredible chance
with the city population grown tenfold
you must plan your weekend
at least two weeks ahead and even going
to the countryside for a picnic
is an adventure in itself
first you have to leave the city then
find a spot where there won't be crowds
of nature-goers like you
and after you're done it's a trip back
home
normally people prepare for at least a
two-day stay in the country
because it takes three hours just to
leave the town and another three to get
back
lost in thoughts about all this you
don't notice your colleague approaching
you
and start when she touches your shoulder
she smiles and apologizes and you notice
a folder in her hand
she traces your gaze and puts the folder
on your table
opening it inside you see some documents
but don't understand what they're about
your colleague points to several
paragraphs
and you have to read them three times
before realization
dawns on you like a hammer it's a set of
reports from several cities across the
country
there are lots of numbers you can barely
understand but all of the papers have
one thing in common
they end with a request for demos inc to
open a branch in their respective towns
you count the reports 17
17 new cities have just experienced the
same baby boom you've been trying to
cope with for half a century